We'll continue working on the app we built in the last course module with our recipes here and with
the filters we could Saturns on and there are two things we need to add where we will need redux.
One is that we actually can mark our recipe as a favorite by clicking that star icon that does actually
marks does as a favorite and that we for one also changed as I can to show whether that already is a
favorite or not.
But then more importantly that we can see that recipe as a favorite here in the favorites tab at the
opera thing where we will need read X is here in the filters there when we set a filter and we then
safeties of course this should have an effect on the meals we're loading here in our meals tab in the
list of meals when we select the category there.
This should be reflected what we set on the filters so that is what we work on what we all need redux
for and for that let's install redux and let's get started with it.
To get started with redox I'll quit my exposed server here.
The NPM start process I'll quit it temporarily and install a package.
And that would be redux.
And in addition to redux we all need to install react read X because that's all the required to then
work with redux.
So both packages need to be installed here and whilst they are installed we can already get started
working on our code files there a little bit because in this project I want to add a new folder now
and it's to store folder.
Now you can named as folder whatever you want it doesn't have to be named store redux doesn't care.
But this is a folder where I want to manage my redux setup in because redux is all about that central
state store.
So here in that store folder we can now get started with redacted and I won't cover redux in the greatest
detail here.
I have a complete react and read X course for it if you want to learn the ins and outs of that for discourse
I actually assume prior react and read X knowledge and data for this will only be a brief refresher
read X in the end is all about read users actions and then building a store based on these read hours
and actions.
Now afforded here in that store folder I'll add actions folder and I'll add a reduced folder actually
will only have one action and one reducer file in this project but if you had more files than that having
separate some folders might be a good idea to keep it organized and that's why I create them here even
though for this simple app we wouldn't need that because we won't have that many files.
Let's get started with the reducer in the reducer folder here.
I'll add my meals J.S. file and that's the file where I went to manage my meals reducer state updating
logic.
So that's in the end the file where we will write the logic for marking a meal as a favorite and for
managing our filters.
Now I her in react is just a function.
So here I will create a function name at meals reduce her name is totally up to you and this function
will actually receive two arguments the state the current state snapshot on which you can build up on
and derive a new state because a reducer in the end will have to return and you state which is then
taken by redux and stored in its store.
So you get Dede current the old state here and you get the action because to reduce your function here
is executed by redux.
Whenever a new action is dispatched and therefore we get access to the action here Soledad we can find
out if we need to act and what we need to do.
So instead of this function the end then you need to return unused state and it's in its simplest form
that of course means we return to current state which on the other end means that this reducer doesn't
do anything useful but we'll change that.
Now when we first execute our app we also want to set up an initial state which is used initially so
which initialize is our state.
When this app launches and for this I'll add a new initial state constant here which holds a simple
javascript object and in there I want to store a list of my meals and then also a list of my filtered
meals because we'll need both a list of all meals and a list of the meals that fit the filters the user
is set and I also want to have my favorite meals here so three types of meal arrays which I store in
yet.
And of course that's just one possible approach you could take here.
You can certainly find other ways of managing our data here but I like this one.
Now what I'll need in this file is my meals dummy data so I'll import meals from my data folder and
there from the dummy data JavaScript file and I'll initialize meals here with my meals dummy data array
filtered meals all is initialized with that because initially when this app starts we have no filters
setup favorite meals on the other hand initialize an empty array because again when the app starts will
have no favorite meals.
Of course in a real app you might want to store dead state on a servers so that when the user closes
the app and comes back later you don't start from scratch again.
But that's not something we'll do here.
You'll learn how to reach out to a server and save data there and load data from there in separate modules
later in this course.
Here we'll keep this simple to focus on redux.
So this is my initial state here in this function we can now use of javascript syntax where we assign
our initial state as a default value for the state argument which means that when does reduce her function
runs and state is undefined which is the case when redux executes our reducer for the very first time
we'll get started with that initial state.
So that will then automatically load our initial state.
So to say because when redux gets started and starts up there will be one initial action dispatched
which is used to run through to reduce her ones and that will then load our initial state.
So with that we can work with some initial state which is nice but which on its own doesn't help us
too much for the moment.
That is it though.
Let's now connect us reducer to redact such that we can't actually use our redux store everywhere in
the app before we then start dispatching actions and do more useful stuff in the reducer hence here
for now and we'll just export the meals reduce our as a default here and now an app J us which is to
file where our entire app starts.
We need to setup our redux store for dead in here.
We import create store from redux.
In addition will need to import combined with users from there.
This allows us to now create a store we'll just need our reducer.
So here all import my meals reducer from and now point at the store folder.
The producers folder and they are the meals.
J.S. file and now maybe here we can create our store here by calling create store now create store takes
a reducer in the end what you need to pass in of course here we have a reducer and we could pass this
in but in bigger apps you might have more than one reducer because you often have rid users for the
different feature areas of your app one for authentication one for your products one for let's say the
support area of your app and you need to merge all these single red users these different road users
into one route reducer and that's what the combined road users function does.
Again here we wouldn't need it because we only have one reducer but to already show you the approach
you could use with multiple producers as well.
I will use it here as well so I will have my route reducer here which I create by calling combined with
users combined with users takes a javascript object where we now map our single road users are different
producers to keys.
So for example here we could take meals as a key but that name is totally up to you and connect this
to the meals reducer like this.
What this does is it in the end merges this meals with user into this route reducer and will later be
able to work with the state managed by the meals reducer.
So with this state which is initialized like this with the help of this meal's property we'll be able
to access this state.
This slice of the state with this property later but you'll see all of that.
So that's our route reducer and now we just have to pass the route reducer to create store.
This gives us a store and now what.
Now this store needs to be provided to our application and for Dad we need that.
Our package which we installed which is react redux.
From there we can import the provider component provider like this we then wrap provider around our
route app component in the end so around the topmost component which holds all our components that will
eventually interact with our store and the meals navigator is pretty good for that because that holds
all our screens so it holds all components that will eventually need to dispatch actions or access our
state.
So read from our state hence here we wrap the provider component around the meals navigator and now
provider takes one important property one prop which you have to pass and that's the store prop.
And of course there as a value we pass our store here.
So this constant store which holds the created store is passed to the store prop of provider and behind
the scenes this gives us everything we need to now interact with redux with the redux store in any component
any screen or any other component in our application.
Now let me restart this with NPM start and for the moment is won't make a big difference but our app
should certainly still work so it shouldn't crash because of that.
Let's just verify that this is the case and let's reload here repressing are twice on Android and command
are on ISIS and let's see where debt still loads as it should yep that's looking good here on our and
I'm pretty confident that it will all to load just fine on Android yep that's working too.
So now redux is set up.
Our store is initialized but we're not using it.
So as a next step let's make sure we use our store before we then take care about actions and doing
some real work in the reducer.